le nom de fichier est: Boudin-Torres-2006
A Scalable MMR Approach to Sentence Scoring
for Multi-Document Update Summarization
Labstract de lauteur est:
Abstract

redundancy with previously read documents (history) has to be removed from the extract.
A natural way to go about update summarization
would be extracting temporal tags (dates, elapsed
times, temporal expressions...) (Mani and Wilson,
2000) or to automatically construct the timeline
from documents (Swan and Allan, 2000). These
temporal marks could be used to focus extracts on
the most recently written facts. However, most recently written facts are not necessarily new facts.
Machine Reading (MR) was used by (Hickl et
al., 2007) to construct knowledge representations
from clusters of documents. Sentences containing “new” information (i.e. that could not be inferred by any previously considered document)
are selected to generate summary. However, this
highly efficient approach (best system in DUC
2007 update) requires large linguistic resources.
(Witte et al., 2007) propose a rule-based system
based on fuzzy coreference cluster graphs. Again,
this approach requires to manually write the sentence ranking scheme. Several strategies remaining on post-processing redundancy removal techniques have been suggested. Extracts constructed
from history were used by (Boudin and TorresMoreno, 2007) to minimize history’s redundancy.
(Lin et al., 2007) have proposed a modified Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) (Carbonell and
Goldstein, 1998) re-ranker during sentence selection, constructing the summary by incrementally
re-ranking sentences.
In this paper, we propose a scalable sentence
scoring method for update summarization derived
from MMR. Motivated by the need for relevant
novelty, candidate sentences are selected according to a combined criterion of query relevance and
dissimilarity with previously read sentences. The
rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2

We present S MMR, a scalable sentence
scoring method for query-oriented update summarization. Sentences are scored
thanks to a criterion combining query relevance and dissimilarity with already read
documents (history). As the amount of
data in history increases, non-redundancy
is prioritized over query-relevance. We
show that S MMR achieves promising results on the DUC 2007 update corpus.

1

Introduction
La discussion de la recherche est:
Discussion and Future Work

Mani, I. and G. Wilson. 2000. Robust temporal processing of news. In 38th Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 69–76.
Association for Computational Linguistics Morristown, NJ, USA.

In this paper we have described S MMR, a scalable sentence scoring method based on MMR that
achieves very promising results. An important aspect of our sentence scoring method is that it does
not requires re-ranking nor linguistic knowledge,
which makes it a simple and fast approach to the
issue of update summarization. It was pointed out
at the DUC 2007 workshop that Question Answering and query-oriented summarization have been
converging on a common task. The value added
by summarization lies in the linguistic quality. Approaches mixing IR techniques are well suited for
query-oriented summarization but they require intensive work for making the summary fluent and
coherent. Among the others, this is a point that we
think is worthy of further investigation.

Murray, G., S. Renals, and J. Carletta. 2005. Extractive
Summarization of Meeting Recordings. In Ninth European Conference on Speech Communication and
Technology. ISCA.
Salton, G., A. Wong, and C. S. Yang. 1975. A vector
space model for automatic indexing. Communications of the ACM, 18(11):613–620.
Swan, R. and J. Allan. 2000. Automatic generation
of overview timelines. In 23rd annual international
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval, pages 49–56.

Acknowledgments

Winkler, W. E. 1999. The state of record linkage and
current research problems. In Survey Methods Section, pages 73–79.

This work was supported by the Agence Nationale
de la Recherche, France, project RPM2.

Witte, R., R. Krestel, and S. Bergler. 2007. Generating Update Summaries for DUC 2007. In Document
Understanding Conference (DUC).

References

Ye, S., L. Qiu, T.S. Chua, and M.Y. Kan. 2005. NUS
at DUC 2005: Understanding documents via concept links. In Document Understanding Conference
(DUC).

Boudin, F. and J.M. Torres-Moreno. 2007. A Cosine Maximization-Minimization approach for UserOriented Multi-Document Update Summarization.
In Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing
(RANLP), pages 81–87.
Carbonell, J. and J. Goldstein. 1998. The use of MMR,
diversity-based reranking for reordering documents
and producing summaries. In 21st annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval, pages 335–336.
ACM Press New York, NY, USA.

26

La bibliographie de la recherche est:
References

Ye, S., L. Qiu, T.S. Chua, and M.Y. Kan. 2005. NUS
at DUC 2005: Understanding documents via concept links. In Document Understanding Conference
(DUC).

Boudin, F. and J.M. Torres-Moreno. 2007. A Cosine Maximization-Minimization approach for UserOriented Multi-Document Update Summarization.
In Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing
(RANLP), pages 81–87.
Carbonell, J. and J. Goldstein. 1998. The use of MMR,
diversity-based reranking for reordering documents
and producing summaries. In 21st annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval, pages 335–336.
ACM Press New York, NY, USA.

26

